Section XXI - WORKS OF ART, COLLECTORS’ PIECES AND ANTIQUES 
Chapter 97 Works of art, collectors' pieces and antiques 
19589600 
Heading: 9703.00.00 
Instrument:
Description: 
Original sculptures and statuary, in any
material. This opinion clarifies the
assessment of whether works are original
sculpture or statuary of 9703.
Status: 
F
Date: 
12/10/2009 
Change_Date: 
Reason: 
ORIGINAL - The use of the word original in heading 9703 is not always
limited to the "first" made. In regard to cast, fired or hard material
reproduction sculpture, where a clay form is used to mould a plaster model
and then copies are made in marble, wood, wax, bronze, terra cotta or
plaster, all of these (the clay form, plaster model and the copies) MAY be
acceptable as "originals". Where there are twelve or less such copies,
castings, replicas or reproductions made from a sculptor's original work or
model, whether by the sculptor himself or by another artist, and the
provenance (the record or document authenticating a work of art) is held by
the importer, then Customs will normally accept all of these as original
sculpture, provided that the work is not covered by one of the exclusions
listed below. Where there are more than twelve copies made, a Tariff
Advice should be sought as these copies would not normally be accepted as
"original". SCULPTURE - Sculpture and statuary covers art produced in a
variety of ways. In addition to carving from hard material or moulding from
soft material, the creation of sculpture from pre-existing materials is a
recognised process. To fall to 9703, it is required that the work is created by
an artist. This would normally be work recognised by experts as being from
the hands of an artist, being from a recognised "school" of work, and being
capable of being accepted in public exhibitions limited to the "fine arts". In
cases where doubt about whether the work is an original work of fine art by
an artist, Customs will consider the advice of suitably qualified and
independent persons. GOODS EXCLUDED FROM 9703 Note 3 to Chapter
97 excludes 'mass-produced reproductions or works of conventional
craftsmanship of a commercial character, even if these articles are
designed or created by artists'. Any mass-produced reproductions are
excluded, regardless of whether the work reproduced would have been
regard as original sculpture. Works of conventional craftsmanship
generally include articles of work produced by potters, glassmakers,
goldsmiths, weavers, woodworkers, jewellers and similar artisans. Such
articles are often described as "decorative" or "industrial" art and normally
have a utilitarian use. Although these articles are often of a high quality,
they generally do not display originality of conception, execution and
design. Utilitarian use is determined on the basis of whether or not the
article has a useful purpose. The importer's intention is not determinative in
this regard. Statuary having a utilitarian use is normally regarded as being
of "a commercial nature". Examples include sculptured fruit bowls and
pots for plants. For such articles to be OTHER THAN "works of
conventional craftsmanship of a commercial nature", they would need to
meet the requirements for recognition outlined under the paragraphs
'SCULPTURE' and "ORIGINAL" above. 
19589500 
Heading: 9705.00.00 
Instrument:
Description: 
This precedent covers rock and mineral
collections, comprising a labelled selection of
rocks and minerals put up for retail sale in a
presentation pack. It does not include
collections containing natural or cultured
pearls, or precious or semi-precious stones. 
The goods covered are those collections of
rocks and/or minerals that can be identified as
being specimens which, because of their
rarity, their grouping or their presentation, are
of mineralogical interest. This includes
"beginner collections" of common rocks and
minerals of little value that are presented with
informative labels and/or literature that shows
they are collections designed for those with an
interest in learning and collecting mineral
specimens. 
Status: 
F
Date: 
12/10/2009 
Change_Date: 
28/08/2014 
Reason: 
The products are classified to subheading 9705.00.00. 
Chapter 97 Note 1(c) excludes natural or cultured pearls, and precious or
semi-precious stones, from Chapter 97; therefore this heading does not
cover collections containing any of these goods. 
Rock and mineral collections that do not include such goods are classified
to 9705.00.00 by Interpretative Rules 1 and 6. 
Section XXI - WORKS OF ART, COLLECTORS’ PIECES AND ANTIQUES 
Page 146 of 147End of Chapter 97 
Number of records for Chapter: 
2 
Section XXI - WORKS OF ART, COLLECTORS’ PIECES AND ANTIQUES 
Page 147 of 147